How do you manage all your users
in the bands that you have
licensed from the government?
These are called FDMA frequency
division multiple access, TDMA,
time division multiple access, CDMA,
code division multiple access.
Don't worry about the acronyms now,
we will get
a big idea of what exactly
they all correspond to.
[COUGH] The first
generation of cell phones,
one key, they are call AMPS.
Advanced mobile phone system.
And it was based on Frequency
division multiple axis.
So, you have a separate radio station
banned for each of the users, and
through the duration of the call
each user occupies a given spectrum.
And this is why it's quite similar
to circular switched telephoning.
Now you occupy a spectral
band instead of a copper.
In North America, each of these
channels were 30 kilovolts wide, and
that gives you about 54 users,
54 channels in a bay station so
that one user is not interfering
with the other user.
So I want you to recall the FM
broadcast system we did in Module 1.
The FM went from 88 megahertz to 108
megahertz with 200 kilohertz per station.
So you have about 100 FM radio stations.
In AMPS, each voice signal is
carried exactly like in FM.
And you have 4 kilohertz for
each voice signal that
when you do frequency modulation,
there is bandwidth expansion.
And that takes about 30
kilohertz to give tall quality.
The main point is the link between
the cell phone and the bay station
is still analogue, although the rest of
the telephone network is all digital,
and that's why this is sometimes
called the analog form.
In 2G,
the modulation schemes went digital.
So, we still have each channel for
one user, but
instead of giving it to one user.
Here on the left one they're showing all
the three users squeezed into one channel.
So, in the digital scheme the three users
all use the time in a round robin manner.
So, first one third user one users then
the second user, then the third user.
And in the next second,
it comes back to the first user.
And this is quite similar to the T1,
E1 trunk lines that we talked
about in the digital telephony.
That is also a tedium, a time division,
multiple axis in the digital telephony.